Once Upon A Time In Hollywood is shaking up
the movie industry with its star-studded cast
and alternate ending that changes the facts
to fiction.
Throughout this, I’ll be breaking down everything
that you need to know about the end of the
movie and discussing how it alters the actual
events of the Manson Murders and death of
Sharon Tate.
There will be heavy spoilers here so if you
haven’t seen the film yet and don’t want
to know what happens then I highly suggest
that you turn off now.
There are some typical Tarantino-esque twists
here and the surprises are worth seeing unspoiled
so this is your last chance to enjoy the film
with fresh eyes.
With that out the way, I just wanna give a
huge thank you for clicking this video now
let’s get into my breakdown of Once Upon
A Time In Hollywood.
Once Upon A Time In Hollywood Plot Recap
________________
Once Upon A Time is set to the backdrop of
the infamous Manson Murders, particularly
the death of Sharon Tate.
However, the film is somewhat satirical and
similar to Inglorious Basterds, the film gives
the truth a rather more Hollywood ending.
The movie itself follows Rick Dalton and his
friend Cliff Booth played by Leonardo DiCaprio
and Brad Pitt respectively.
Dalton was once at the top of his game, however,
all good things must come to an end and his
career seems like it’s going on a complete
downward spiral.
The film chronicles his journey to what he
thinks is the bottom rung of the ladder and
along the way he and Booth bump into the likes
of many big real names in Hollywood including
Bruce Lee.
They also meet Catherine Share played by Lena
Dunham who just so happens to be the ringleader
of the Manson girls which plays into the end.
The Manson Crimes
________________
On the whole, though the tale is mostly fictional
and after Dalton ends up getting married,
he and Booth decide to part ways but they
want just one more night of drinking to celebrate
all they’ve been through together.
This just so happens to be on August the 8th,
which is my birthday by the way, and is, of
course, the infamous night that four followers
of Charles Manson decided to murder Sharon
Tate who just so happens to be a neighbour
of Dalton.
In real life, they then went on to kill Tate
and her house guests.
Manson did this to try and frame the Black
Panthers in order to start a race war that
would eventually lead to the apocalypse known
as ‘Helter Skelter.’
Though the murders did happen, Manson and
his followers were eventually jailed before
the situation could escalate any more and
he and his followers went down in history
as some of the worst serial killers of all
time.
However, the film completely changes the events
from about this point onwards and paints out
history with rose-tinted glasses.
ONCE UPON A TIME ENDING EXPLAINED BREAKDOWN
FULL SPOILER TALK REVIEW
Once Upon A Time In Hollywood Ending
________________
During the bender, Rick who is sick and tired
of all the hippies goes face to face with
the killers who have parked up outside the
houses and he warns orders them to leave,
which they do.
That doesn’t mean it’s over though and
the group of murderers come up with a new
plan on Manson’s orders to kill Rick instead.
To them, it doesn’t really matter who the
target is as long as their message is spread
so they head back to his house.
The killers return to the house but what we
get instead of some brutal murders is some
over the top, highly graphic violence that
has its tongue placed firmly in its cheek.
It’s all-out war with Rick his wife, Cliff
and the dog all getting into it with the acolytes.
Eventually, they manage to kill them and overcome
the threat and Tate who lives just next door
overhears the ruckus and goes out to find
out what happened.
Rick knows that she’s married to Roman Polanski
but till now he hasn’t really had the opportunity
to speak to her, however, this is the perfect
introduction to finally get talking to her
and to get his career back on track.
The film ends with the two talking like old
friends and we get a happy ending that basically
rewrites history and makes Rick the hero of
his own movie.
It’s an awesome ending that in true Tarantino
Fashion lets us look back on the past with
wishful thinking and makes us wonder what
we could have got had the events played out
differently.
Once Upon A Time In Hollywood Fact VS Fiction
________________
On the whole, the movie actually does stick
to the facts in terms of the main players
with all of the killers including Tex Watson,
Susan Atkins, Linda Kasabian and Katie all
having real-life counterparts.
On the night that they were going to commit
the murders though there was no Rick Dalton
and thus the group was able to carry out their
brutal killings.
Though Polanski was a target at the time he
was actually away during the murders and the
group killed Tate who was 8 months pregnant
and all of her party guests.
The killings were very brutal and I definitely
recommend that you watch one of the many youtube
documentaries on the matter if this movie
has piqued your interest.
When exiting the house they wrote ‘pig’
on the front door in Tate’s blood and it
really was a horrifying crime.
Once Upon A Time In Hollywood Ending Explained
________________
But what does it all mean, well to me the
entire film is a quest for fame and how in
order to get it and hold onto it we have to
do terrible things.
Dalton, Booth and even the Mansons are all
focused solely on gaining recognition and
trying to keep a hold of it as tightly as
possible and to me this symbolises just how
Hollywood subverts the innocent in exchange
for status.
The movie business as a whole is all about
the flavor of the month and in the film, even
though Tate is currently popular, we get the
feeling that deep down she knows that she
won’t be forever.
Overall to me, the film is a comment on how
Hollywood romanticizes these aspects and paints
it all out as one big happy ending even though
we know as an audience that this isn’t the
case.
Just as Tarantino changed history, Hollywood
does too and the piece should be viewed as
a parody of how the movie business as a whole
is unwilling to show it’s dark underside
even though we all know that it exists.
Your Thoughts
Obviously, I’d love to hear your thoughts
on this take and if you agree with me.
Comment below and let me know!